1.	 Introduction
Data is everywhere , from our biological system to the digital footprint that we leave on the web. In todays era every data is considered valuable. Data Science field , is combination of data analysis , data mining , statistics , computer science , design and also include the basic understanding of the field from which the data originates. To work with data as a data scientist , one has to be inquisitive, creative and should have skills to analyse data from different angles, report the findings and embrace change whenever it is necessary. This report builds a bridge between the theory of data science and a practical institution of the same .

Our project report deals with cancer data in the United States of America from the year 2010 to 2014. To begin with, let us first understand what is cancer and how data science’s principles and tools can be used to understand its prevalence in the united States. Our body is made up of trillions of cells. Cell is basic structural and functional unit of all living organism. The cells replicate independently allowing the person to grow and as we grow older, the divided cells replace worn out or injured. Thus cells are known as “building block of life”. However, disease name Cancer, medically known as Malignant neoplasia, is a broad group of diseases involving unregulated cell growth. Cells divide and grow uncontrollably forming tumors which invades nearby or distant body parts, tissue of organs or skin and cause health issues and some lead to death if not treated early. There are over 200 different types of cancer that could affect us according to the data that we obtained from www.cancer.org. There are types of cancer that cannot be completely cured even if the treatment is started early .Cancer  could be tumor causing however, leukemia is not known to form tumors as often as others. In this case, they move through the bloodstream of the person affecting other internal organs. Cancer cells are mutated cells that are tumor causing or invading other organs in the body and affecting the normal activity of that organ. Hence causing issues to the human body.

As we read this report , there are millions of people across the globe who have been affected by cancer , are susceptible to cancer due to inheritance of mutated genes or was once affected by cancer. This study shows data from the last few years about cancer and its types in different states of USA. As you proceed reading report, we hope to bring in a better understanding to how many people have been affected by cancer across different age groups and gender and in a specific state. The final conclusions helps a person decide the type of screening for cancer that they might choose to do more often than other. Also, this helps medical health representatives be well prepared with the required resources to treat people in that years for the years to come . In helping the government deciding on the research funding needed for cancer centres in that states . We are hoping to help people from the government and private sector to understand the most prevalent type of cancer in a specific state to help improve patient’s health and for NGO to create better awareness in that state for that cancer . Breaking down the type of cancer with respect to the type that affects a particular gender and the age group most susceptible to it , helps NGOs reach people faster and insurance providers to be aware of what coverage to include to make sure they are profitable and at the same time people who are subscribed have complete access to the medical facilities. 

 
 

2.	 Theoretical
As a part of the team project, each team which consisted of three member was required to come up with three titles per person . We discussed about the tools that could be used, the data that is available and most importantly how the effect we would have on the society . The final four titles that we had on the table were -Studying Cancer data , Weather Trend, Mobile Traffic Applications and Million Song Data . The next step was for us, was to take a sample data and analyze to understand what we would achieve with the data we had.
 
❖	 Million Song Data 
We had the analysis heading towards analysing the different instruments, lyrics and rhythm used for the million songs from an archive to find the most prevalent rhythm used, most repeated words and the most commonly used instruments.This is to generalize a go-to rhythm and lyrics that would be far fetching . In the context of music, this would have samples of rhythm and a set of words most commonly used by songwriters and composers with greater success with their songs. 
❖	 Weather Trend
This included a decade’s worth data about the weather that has been recorded across the globe, studying that would give us the results close to the  amount of increase in greenhouse gases, the rate at which climate change is happening and the most susceptible places for hurricane, cyclone, tsunami and earthquake in the years to come.
❖	Mobile Traffic analysis
Data analysis for the mobile traffic that has been recorded in the last five years across the globe would give us an idea about how much we could be expecting it to increase in the next few years. However, moore’s law does not apply to this as the number of devices are increasing exponentially and at the same time, some parts of the world are still not clearly connected to the rest of the world. Our study was to help the tech companies to predict the increase the mobile device sales and the amount of infrastructure needed to support the mobile devices and the traffic caused by them. 
❖	Cancer data analysis
Analysis of the data for the last few years across the types of cancer prevalent in the united states. As we proceeded to try out a simple excel sheet analysis, we understood that the data provided was divided across  the different states based on gender and age as well. The outcome is the most prevalent type in a state based on gender and age. This would help the government to decide on the funding they provide for research and treatment of cancer in the states. It would greatly help the NGO’s to educate people through awareness programs on the most prevalent in the state instead of trying to scare people with reaching about all the 200 types of cancer. Finally , the graphs could be easily printed or posts on social networks for people to know the risk zone they are in and get themselves checked regularly for that type. As this seemed to help a large number of people and the final results could be really helpful to make people understand the need for cancer screening , we chose cancer analysis as our project . 

Problem Statements :
#1.Identify which state in the United States is at the maximum risk zone for cancer.
#2.Detect the most prevalent type of cancer in the coming years.
#3.Which cancer is deadliest for male and female in the US. 





